Now the goal of a storage infrastructure,
obviously, is to store data.
There are two storage related
issues we consider here.
The first is the issue of capacity.
How much storage should we allocate?
That means, what should be the size
of the memory, how large and
how many disk units should we have,
and so forth.
There is also the issue of scalability.
Should the storage devices be
attached directly to the computers
to make the direct IO fast but
less scalable?
Or should the storage be
attached to the network
that connect the computers in the cluster?
This will make disk
access a bit slower but
allows one to add more
storage to the system easily.
Now these questions do
not have a simple answer.
If you're interested, you may look up
a website given on your reading list.
A different class of questions deals
with the speed of the IU operation.
This question is often addressed with
this kind of diagram here called a memory
hierarchy, or storage hierarchy, or
sometimes memory storage hierarchy.
The top of the pyramid structure shows
a part of memory called cache memory,
that lives inside the CPU and
is very fast.
There are different levels of cache,
called L1, L2, L3,
where L3 is the slowest but
still faster than what we call memory,
shown here in orange near the middle.
The figure shows their speed
in terms of response times.
Notice the memory streamed here
is 65 nanoseconds per access.
In contrast,
the speed of the traditional hard disk
is of the order of 10 milliseconds.
This gap has prompted the design
of many data structures and
algorithms.that use a hard disk but
tries to minimize the cost of
the IO operations between the fast
memory and the slower disk.
But more recently,
a newer kind of storage.
Very similar to the flash drives or
USBs that we regularly use have made
an entry as a new storage medium.
These devices are called SSDs or
Solid State Devices.
They are much faster
than spinning hard disks.
An even newer addition is
the method called NVMe,
NVM stands for non-volatile memory,
that makes data transfer between SSDs and
memory much faster.
What all this means in a big data system
is that now we have the choice of
architecting a storage infrastructure
by choosing how much of each type of
storage we need to have.
In my own research with large amounts
of data, I have found that using SSDs
speed up all look up operations in data by
at least a factor of ten over hard drives.
Of course the flip side of
this is the cost factor.
The components become increasingly more
expensive as we go from the lower layers
of the pyramid to the upper layers.
So ultimately, it becomes an issue
of cost-benefit tradeoff.